Fix pacing spec in "application-limited" section (#47)
ietf-wg-ccwg/draft-ietf-ccwg-bbr: draft-ietf-ccwg-bbr.md

at which the application happens to be transmitting data at any moment.

To track this, the estimator marks a bandwidth sample as application-limited
if there was some moment during the sampled flight of data packets when
congestion control would have allowed a send, and yet there was no data ready
to send.

More specifically, the algorithm detects that an application-limited phase has
started when the sending application requests to send new data,
or the connection's retransmission mechanisms decide to retransmit data,
and the connection meets the following conditions: the congestion window and
pacing rate would have allowed the connection to send data, and yet the
connection is not currently sending data and has no data to send (i.e., no
unsent/new data, no retransmit data, and no other data, such as encoded data

> blocks for forward error correction). The precise determination of this

Reviewer: There are a lot of reasons one might want to send a packet that counts towards inflight, I'd prefer to focus on the two most common.

```suggestion
unsent data or retransmissions of previously sent data). The precise determination of this
```

condition depends on how the connection uses mechanisms to implement
pacing, batching, GSO/TSO/offload, etc.

> If these conditions are met then the sender has run out of data to feed the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If these conditions are met, then the sender has run out of data to feed the
```

1. The transport send buffer has less than one C.SMSS of unsent data available
  to send.

2. All the packets considered lost have been retransmitted.

3. The sending flow is not currently in the process of transmitting a packet.

4. The pacing enforcement mechanism permits a packet to be sent now.

5. The congestion window permits a packet to be sent now, i.e.,
   C.inflight is less than C.cwnd.

> 

Reviewer 2: Nice, but does not capture the timing issue of an implementation that waits until enough "pacing tokens" are ready to send a train of packets.

Author: > Nice, but does not capture the timing issue of an implementation that waits until enough "pacing tokens" are ready to send a train of packets.

AFAICT this text does, in fact, capture such a timing issue.

If there is data newly presented to the connection for sending, and there are *not* enough pacing tokens to send,  then pacing does not permit the connection to send, and then this will *not* meet the new "4. The pacing enforcement mechanism permits a packet to be sent now" criterion, so the connection will *not* mark itself application-limited (because the connection was not permitted to send by the pacing rate, and thus was CCA-pacing-limited rather than application-limited).

If there is data newly presented to the connection for sending, and there *are* enough pacing tokens to send,  then pacing *does* permit the connection to send, and then this will meet the new "4. The pacing enforcement mechanism permits a packet to be sent now" criterion. So if all other criteria are met, then the connection will mark itself application-limited (because the connection was already permitted to send by pacing rate and cwnd, and yet did not have any data to send, and thus was application-limited).

AFAICT that is the correct behavior. What did I miss? :-)

cc: @ianswett @jbeshay

Author: > Isn't that a variation of "The pacing enforcement mechanism permits a packet to be sent now."? If you're waiting for more tokens before sending, then you'd be congestion control limited, not app limited.

+1, what Ian said. :-) Ian's version was a more concise version of what I was posting concurrently. ( The github UI doesn't do a good job of letting you know someone posted to a bug while you were drafting an update, I guess... :-) )

Reviewer 2: We could certainly read "The pacing enforcement mechanism permits a packet to be sent now" to mean "the pacing enforcement mechanism permits a train of packets to be sent now" -- and same for the C.cwnd test. That would be exactly what I suggest. But doesn't that require a bit of "reading between the lines"? Can we think of a way to make that reading a bit more explicit?

Reviewer: In my view:
Application Limited = The congestion controller asked for data to send or would have allowed you to send data, and the application had nothing to send

There are a number of mechanisms to implement pacing, batching, GSO/TSO/offload/etc, but the more we get into the details of them, the more likely what we say will be wrong.  Possibly we need less text, not more?

Reviewer 2: @ianswett, you may well be right. But "the congestion controller asked for data" is kinda application specific. Maybe specify the intent, and then add a qualifier. Such as:

The algorithm detects that an application-limited phase has started when
congestion control and pacing control would have allowed the application to send data, 
and the application had nothing to send. The precise determination of this
condition depends on how the application uses mechanisms to implement pacing,
batching, GSO/TSO/offload/etc.
